This is a productivity app based on my own method I've developed over time.

If whoever is reading this is more interested in the code than my productivity
strategy skip forward a few paragraphs.

I choose about 3 to 5 types of tasks to cycle through with the intention of
completing the same number of tasks by the end of a session. This is the
approach I take at my job and encourages me to allocate time more fairly
between different responsibilities in my role. Example task types are
documentation, reporting, developing, and email. Example tasks are write a
doc-string for a function, design a Powerpoint slide to explain how some code I
wrote adds business value, refactor a runtime bottleneck, and respond to an
email.

My approach addresses key issues that I found with the Pomodoro strategy I used
before. The Pomodoro strategy is time-based instead of task based. Some tasks
such as developing a new piece of code can require a long period of deep focus.
To me, it's usually counterproductive to interrupt that task to take a break. On
the other hand, if I finish a task early I put myself again at risk of
interruption if I lack another short task in the queue.

Task-cycling is good for me because I feel that breaks are more useful between
tasks. And tasks will take me however long they take me. The major advantage of
Pomodoro though is that there is a planned healthy balance between the amount
of time spent working and the time spend resting. When I task cycle, I try to
have both long and short task types so I can capture big wins for the day while
still allowing myself to breathe. If I only have long tasks then I include
breaks as an task type.


THE CODE!

Why am I making an app for this? Because I usually keep track on a scratch
sticky note. It's not environmentally-friendly and I accumulate clutter on my
workspace. There's probably apps similar to mine out there but they might not
have the exact mix of features I want. Plus, if I build my own then I gain the
experience as a developer and have the option of adding whatever features I
want in the future.

The app is basically a modified to-do list. There's an input box where I can
submit my task types for the day. Upon submission, a progress bar appears that
will track the number of tasks I complete for that type. This is facilitated by
plus and minus buttons associated with each progress bar. There is also a delete
button for each progress bar if I make a type or change my mind about the day's
priorities. The progress bars are also draggable so that I can sort them in the
order I tend to cycle through them.

A future feature will involve prompting the user to specify what task was
completed. Then at the end of the session, the user can export a report of
what they accomplished during the session ordered by category.

EDIT:
Added drag-and-drop feature based on Web Dev Simplified's tutorial.


References
I heavily use code from various YouTube tutorials. I credit Dev Ed and Web Dev
Simplified for their tutorials, which are linked below.

Dev Ed todo list: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ttf3CEsEwMQ
Web Dev Simplified progress bar: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=basf1lH1H-E
Web Dev Simplified drag-and-drop: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jfYWwQrtzzY
